Let's talk about routing in a single page application which is why we're building.
We saw that single page applications are really really neat.
There's some pros to it.
Right.
One is that initially when we send the file from the server we only send the files once an e-mail file
a CSX file and a massive JavaScript file usually now back in the day when we clicked on a link we would
go back to the server ask for a new H2 mail page and that server would send it back with CSX and JavaScript.
This time around things are a little bit different.
We request the page and then all the navigation happens within here because we don't need to talk to
the server anymore.
The JavaScript file or our Ria library allows us to manipulate the DOM so that now our servers can just
focus on sending data instead of focusing on Hey what view to render what H2 Mel page dissent we can
just make API requests and get Jason data back which is really really nice.
And now our server maybe if we had a mobile app as well can also be used as the same one because that
Jason data can be sent to a mobile phone because we're not gonna be sending HCM all files back and forth.
It also makes changing the DOM more users interacting with your Web site faster because it doesn't have
to go back and forth back and forth to communicate but there's also downsides to it.
Now the idea of server side rendering and single page application is something we'll cover later on
in the course such as the fact that now we have a bigger JavaScript file so it's more data that we have
to send from the server to the front end.
But what I want to focus on here is routing remember react as just a UI library so it doesn't provide
a routing for us.
We need to add that functionality unlike angular for example that is a framework and comes with routing
pre-built react says I don't care about running you figure it out because it's a smaller library.
It lets us pick and choose what routing we want to do.
Do we want to implement our own or do we want to use a library.
Now we're going to be using react router which I would say is a standard in large react projects.
It's the main one that reactive operas use for routing.
And the problem and tries to solve is the fact that we now don't have the default browser navigation
provided by the browser because the browsers are built around this idea of clicking on links and getting
a new HDMI Alpha and react says well no everything is going to be in jail sex and we'll just change
and update the Dom and we'll let that little robot change the page for us.
So how do we solve this well this package we're going to use react router lets us do some interesting
things.
For example if I click on a page here like hats you see that my your world changed from an empty home
page to shops slash hats initially when single page applications started to take off because single
page applications didn't really have this functionality you had this back button problem where you couldn't
go back because everything while there weren't any links.
This wouldn't happen and this would just keep staying empty.
So when the browser said back well it wouldn't work.
And this was a common problem because the navigation inside the application you URL didn't change.
But the problem is now solved because the browser provides something called a history API and internally
libraries like react Browder and other single page application routing libraries use this API provided
by the browser to essentially hijack and mimic you or else so that as we'll see over the next couple
of videos with this library we can have the same functionality that we had with apps back in the day
but with single page applications and still have functionality where we can go back and forth and use
the URL even enter a specific you URL and get to that page let's find out more in the next video.